Let's add some checks to our code. Let's start with the BaseWeapon class.
We will use the checkf macro. This macro behaves exactly like a regular check.
The only difference is that it allows you to add a custom message about what happened in our code.
Let's check for the number of bullets, so that it cannot be less than or equal to 0.
In the blueprint, you can set an incorrect number. We can of course
also do this by adding meta information: ClampMin, ClampMax. But I don't really want to
limit the input to any constant from above. And add a similar check for the number of clips.
Go to the weapon component class. Here we need to add a check for the number of weapons.
Our current code only supports two weapons. They must be installed.
Therefore, we add this check to BeginPlay.
You can also create a constant for the number 2 so that we don't have magic numbers in the code.
We can declare it at the top in the .cpp file. Let's call it WeaponNum.
Replace 2 with WeaponNum. And in the message we can also display this number as a parameter.
AnimNotify is also very important in our code. If the animations with them are not installed, then our logic of reloading
and changing weapons simply will not work, because our animations will always be in progress.
Therefore, it is logical to check whether AnimNotify was found with us or not, if notify is not found,
then we can send an error message to the console and call a special macro that
is in unreal. It's called checkNoEntry. It is equivalent to calling the check macro with an argument false.
That is, at this point in the program, assertion will always be called for us.
The same can be done for reload. Instead of continue, we print a message and call the checkNoEntry macro.
The next moment. Let's remove the FindNotifyByClass function from the weapon component into a specialized .h file.
Click on the animation folder, which is located in the public directory, right-click, click add new item.
Select the header file, name it AnimUtil.h and create it in source / shootthemup / public / animations.
This function is purely auxiliary, it has nothing to do with the weapon component,
so it is logical to separate it into a utility class. In addition, this function can be used by
some other class that works with animations. We call the class AnimUtils,
create a public section and transfer the FindNotifyByClass template function to AnimUtils.
We also make this function static - it does not depend on a specific instance of the class.
Go to the weapon component class. Add the AnimUtils header file
And add the AnimUtils class name in two places where we call this function.
Add another additional header file, put it in the root of the public folder
and name this file STUCoreTypes. We have declared a lot of structures and delegates in different parts.
They can all be put in one place, in our STUCoreTypes. All auxiliary declarations
will be located in this file. This will greatly increase the readability of the program. We transfer AmmoData we
transfer the declaration of the signature OnEmptyClip from the BaseWeapon file
Further in the weapon component we have WeaponData
Also we transfer it to CoreTypes
You can add a comment that this refers to the weapon. Depending on the complexity of the program, you can also split this
header file into several, for example, WeaponTypes, HealthTypes, and so on.
Add this header file to the weapon component We
also add it to BaseWeapon. Also, do not forget that the last file is generated.h - so all includes must go before it.
We will also add this header file to the health component and move the delegates that
are related to health also in CoreTypes and add the comment health.
Also in WeaponData we use the BaseWeapon class, so we must add a forward declaration of this class
and for the unreal header tool to correctly generate all the code related to macros of structures
and delegates, we need to manually add the header file "filename .generated.h"
Compile.
So let's check out how our checks work. Let's say in RifleWeapon someone set the number of cartridges negative = -1
Start the game. An assertion is immediately generated that the number of cartridges cannot be less than or equal to 0.
Let's undo this change, set it as we had 15
And check the check with animation. We go into equip animation and let's say someone didn't put AnimNotify
. Run.
We get into checkNoEntry
That is, in this way we protect ourselves from ridiculous mistakes during the development of our game.
We return our notify to its place.
Let's package the project. We will do this in the debug game or development configuration
, so that our debug trace is visible and we build the project under windows.
The game has been successfully assembled and we have finished one more section.